1.On learning effective ensembles of deep neural networks for intrusion detection

Classification-oriented Machine Learning methods are a precious tool, in modern Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs), for discriminating between suspected intrusion attacks and normal behaviors. Many recent proposals in this field leveraged Deep Neural Network (DNN) methods, capable of learning effective hierarchical data representations automatically. However, many of these solutions were validated on data featuring stationary distributions and/or large amounts of training examples. By contrast, in real IDS applications different kinds of attack tend to occur over time, and only a small fraction of the data instances is labeled (usually with far fewer examples of attacks than of normal behavior). A novel ensemble-based Deep Learning framework is proposed here that tries to face the challenging issues above. Basically, the non-stationary nature of IDS log data is faced by maintaining an ensemble consisting of a number of specialized base DNN classifiers, trained on disjoint chunks of the data instances’ stream, plus a combiner model (reasoning on both the base classifiers predictions and original instance features). In order to learn deep base classifiers effectively from small training samples, an ad-hoc shared DNN architecture is adopted, featuring a combination of dropout capabilities, skip-connections, along with a cost-sensitive loss (for dealing with unbalanced data). Tests results, conducted on two benchmark IDS datasets and involving several competitors, confirmed the effectiveness of our proposal (in terms of both classification accuracy and robustness to data scarcity), and allowed us to evaluate different ensemble combination schemes.

Code address:https://github.com/massimo-guarascio/dnn_ensemble_ids

2.TMG-GAN: Generative Adversarial Networks-Based Imbalanced Learning for Network Intrusion Detection

Abstract:
Internet of Things (IoT) devices are large in number, widely distributed, weak in protection ability, and vulnerable to various malicious attacks. Intrusion detection technology can provide good protection for network equipment. However, the normal traffic and abnormal traffic in the network are usually imbalanced. Imbalanced samples will seriously affect the performance of machine learning detection algorithm. Therefore, this paper proposes an intrusion detection method based on data augmentation, namely TMG-IDS. We name the proposed data augmentation model TMG-GAN, which is a data augmentation method based on generative adversarial networks (GAN). First, TMG-GAN has a multi-generator structure, which can be used to generate different types of attack data simultaneously. Second, we increase the classifier structure, which can optimize the generator and discriminator more efficiently based on the classification loss. Third, we calculate the cosine similarity between the generated samples and the original samples and other types of generated samples as a generator loss, which can further improve the quality of generated samples and reduce the class overlap area between the distributions of various generated samples. We conduct extensive experiments on two intrusion detection datasets, CICIDS2017 and UNSW-NB15. The experimental results show that compared with the advanced oversampling algorithm and the latest intrusion detection algorithm, the proposed TMG-IDS method has a good detection effect under the three indicators of Precision, Recall and F1-score.

Code address:https://github.com/hwding-whu/TMG-GAN
